So today I will teach you one single most important rule uh to apply when you're manually humanizing a written text to try to avoid a detection. This is just one thing that I always bear in mind when working on such manual edits and it just helps me decide what to change and how to change things. It really helps with the logic uh behind the process of manually humanizing a written text. To teach you that rule, I first have to teach you one quick rule about how AI writing works and then one quick rule for how AI detection works because it is the same rule and all these things overlap. And then I'll show you a real life example of how I apply this rule to text and how this changes the outcome of AI detector. So before we start, just a quick explanation. I do have all these videos in which I explain how to manually humanize a written text and they are still very much relevant and applicable and I do strongly encourage that you watch them. So in these videos I cover so many different rules and so many different practices such as changing the sentence length or looking out for triplet phrasing and trying to reduce dramat dramatization and and all these things. these typical uh characteristics of AI writing and all of this is still like I said very much applicable but underlying all of these processes and things there is this one single rule that I want to teach you today. So I'm whenever I'm working on these texts and I work on these texts a lot by the way if you want to learn how to do it there is uh so much that I have to offer. So there are individual one-to-one sessions that I offer. There is training and workshops that I offer online for how to do it as well as a service where I manually humanize your awitten text. So feel free to uh explore my website for all these services. But coming back to our topic of the video when I engage in these process and I reflected on what's my logic behind these processes I realized there is just one thing that I have overlooked in my previous videos and it is it is that rule. So quickly to understand it let me just explain very briefly how AI writing works. So the thing to know about AI writing is that the way it works is basically it's based on statistical probability. That's all it comes down to. There are many processes and algorithms, but it's really all about predictability. In other words, when AI writes, it doesn't really think about the outcome. It doesn't really plan or think how to say things. All it does, it just tries to compile a sentence and then a string of sentences and then paragraphs based on statistical probability. What it does is it inserts a word and then it inserts another word that's the most likely statistically likely word to follow that first word and then it inserts another word that's again statistically the most likely words to follow that word and that combination of words. It's all about stat statistical probability and that's all you need to know for now about how how a writing works. But then how does AI detection work? because then again this will lead us to how to humanize AI written text successfully and AI detection works exactly the same as AI writing works finally it's based on statistical probability so AI detection when uh the AI detector is looking at a certain uh sentence or string of sentence or paragraph or text again it's using judgment so to speak based on statistical probability. So it's looking at a word or string of sentences and words and tries to predict what comes next. If it's successful in predict in predicting what comes next then it comes to conclusion that is probably AI writing because AI predicted that most statistically uh predictable outcome of the sentence or specifically the structure. So it managed to predict what comes next and then it managed to predict what comes next again. What this means is that this text was predictable for AI and it could uh safely conclude that it was also written by AI. And now we're getting to the topic of humanizing AI written text. And I wonder if you already suspect where this is going. So when we humanize a written text, what do we essentially have to do is to make sure that the text is less statistically predictable. Now you're thinking, okay, well easier said than done. I'm not a computer. I'm not an algorithm. how how do I know how statistically predictable this text is? But here's the rule and here is a simple really simple insight and trick. What you're looking at once you have your AI written text, what you're essentially looking at, remember is the text that's the most statistically predictable version of that text. What this means, in other words, is that any changes we do to it in practically predictable because it's different from that version that was statistically predictable and therefore created by AI. And now the skeptics will say, well, okay, but I've been in a situation where I changed a few words or more than a few words. It still was flagged as AI, so you're full of it. It's not exactly how it works. However, it's true and I've been there as well. However, how this works is not just about the words. The biggest problem, the biggest problem when we take AI written text and we try to humanize it is that we are still forced into or molded into that structure that this original AI writer gave us. So quite often we change many words, we change words within sentences. However, we are still in the same structure. There is still similar amount number of sentences in the paragraph. the sentences are kind of flowing in a similar way. Uh they have similar length and similar number of words even though we changed the words. We're still in that very same structure. So uh and that algorithm that I told you about is obviously much more complex than how I described it. So it still takes this structure and the combination of words and than the order of sentences and even their tenses and all this information and again calculates the statistical probability. So it's more than just replacing the words. So what it is about then is really messing things up a little bit. And this is where we come back to all these things that I told you about in the past. So changing the sentence length and structure and messing up the tenses sometimes or or changing introducing some passive instead of active sentences and so on and so forth. Just trying to make it different from what it is at the moment. And I'll show you in a second how I work on a on a sentence and how I redo it so that it does not get flagged. So what you can see on the screen is a GPT0 uh workspace. I'm not the biggest fan of this AI detector and I usually discourage people from using it. Uh but the reason I discourage them from using it is because it's too aggressive. It's not a good AI detector. It's too aggressive. They pride themselves in high uh AI detection rate which is true but it's only because they also produce a high percentage of false positives. So basically misinterpreting human text as AI writing. They don't care if they are correct or not because they have their statistics. They can pride themselves and being in all almost every time detecting AI uh written text correctly. But I chose it for this video specifically for that purpose because it's so aggressive and so hardcore. So so here we have this text short text. I just want to give you an example of, you know, two sentences. Short text uh about the importance of teaching sports in schools. And if I scan it, you'll see that it does get flagged. It basically says it's uh 83% like pure AI and then it's it's been edited and and generally generally it's AI writing. So now I'll show you in a second I'll show you another version of this uh sentence uh except that I edited this sentence and then we'll look at the differences together. This is a new version of that sentence. Let's scan it. You can see that is human written. And now let me compare these two versions. So here what you can see is the original which means AI written text. And here is the edited version of it. So let's look at the original. It starts by talking about teaching sports in school and how it's important uh in development and then talks about things that are beyond the physical fitness. So like mental health, social development, engagement, academic engagement and whatnot. So then it turns to uh the physical aspect of development. So strength, coordination, endurance, and all the all these things. And this one was flagged by by AI. It doesn't really feel that much AIish. Although it kind of does because it has, for example, triplet phrasing, which I always talk about. So three things in a row. It does have a bit of like dramatization and and trying to justify the importance of something like starting by just saying something something fairly vague is like it's it plays a crucial role. Why not just say what it leads to? You always have to start like it always has to start with like plays a crucial role or has been a complex and popular topic. It always kind of introduces it first but it's not a big deal. However, clearly these things are statistically predictable. just the or even the order of things. Uh if you look at like a proper AI detector, it will tell you how often these things happen and you'll see that for example in like thousand or million text there is this exact same combination and same order like health, social development, academic engagement. So this means it's AI in my text the text I edited I did keep some of that stuff but I completely reversed the structure firstly. So I did start to talk about importance of teaching sports but then I just uh and I said it goes beyond physical fitness but then I did continue to talk about physical fitness. So I I said although it undoubtedly contributes to increased strength, endurance and all these things and then I said most importantly however is this non-physical uh non-physical you know stuff and non-physical outcomes. So mental health academic engagement so it's just already a different structure. Is it better? Is it worse? I mean to me it's better because also I thought about the whole message that I'm trying to send and I thought it makes more sense to at least mention the physical and then mention the non-physical aspects as opposed to here where it starts to talk about you know extending beyond physical aspects starts to talk about mental health and social engagement and then just randomly starts talking about the physical aspects. It's kind of weird like it's not the the main point. It's not the most important point that my sentence is some way in some way is better. It's just different. Remember this one was the most statistically predictable version. I already reversed the structure hoping that it will be less statistically predictable. But what is more important is that I reversed some uh some order as well. So for example, I still talk about areas like mental health, academic engagement, but as you can see, it's a different order already. Here it's talking about mental health, social development, academic engagement. And I talk about mental health, academic engagement, and development of social skills. I use a slightly different wording just hoping that I, you know, rather than social development, I can kind of make it more explanatory, descriptive, and and hope that it's also a structure that hasn't been used so many times. And the reason I reverse the order of mental health and academic engagement again is simply hoping that if mental health social development was the structure was the order picked by AI, I was hoping that if I reverse that order, it's already not the most common and the most predictable order. I did make some additions here as well. Also I I said most importantly however just to increase the flow and also because it wasn't there and also I introduced a little bit of like a passive tense to it because I said participation in sports has been known to influence other areas just because there was no no passive tense here I decided to introduce passive tense again to make it different uh hoping that it will be uh it won't be as statistically predictable as the first version of it. So these are just examples of what I did. But an important point to to be made here. None of what I did is the right way to do it. So don't feel like oh uh he introduced passive voice. He changed the order to things and then he changed the order of sentences and that's what I need to do. I'll make a note and that's what I'll do in my text. None of that. So don't don't you worry about trying to memorize these things or trying to replicate exactly what I did because it's not the point. It's not the point of what I'm trying to do here. Maybe I could have been fine with less changes. Maybe uh you would have introduced different changes than I did and you would probably be successful as well. So what is the point? Apart from this this phrase that I keep repeating making it less statistically predictable, but how do we decide and how do we do that? So the key point is when I'm looking at the text, what I'm trying to really achieve is I'm looking at the meaning. I'm trying to look at the meaning first. So I'm not focusing on individual sentence and trying to replace a few words and then moving on to the next one. I'm looking at the meaning ideally for two three sentences in a row. Sometimes the whole paragraph even and that's the best way to do it. So does it involve manual edits? Of course it does. So many people criticize me in the comments saying, "Oh wow, how did you come up with that? You basically are doing that manually." Well, of course I am. That's what we're trying to do here. We're trying to manually edit AI written text. There is no other way. So it does involve a lot of work. It does involve a lot of manual work. However, when you're looking holistically, let's say at the whole uh couple sentences or a paragraph, it actually makes it easier because if you're focusing uh on the level of individual sentences, there's a lot of mess. It will it's a lot of back and forth and you'll change a few words, it will clear the AI flag and then you'll change another sentence, it will go back to flagging it as a AI. So it actually is easier to look at the full context like a whole couple sentences or a whole paragraph and then try to just think what are they saying and how can I say it differently. How would I say it? And as I'm doing that I do look at the original sentence just to make sure that I didn't just repeat the whole sentence. And the most important thing and things I've been teaching you before changing the sentence lengths and changing the sentence structures. That's the key point. As I'm trying to do that, I always want to make sure that if there are long sentences, I may uh break down one of those long sentences into two short ones. If there are short sentences, I make create one longer sentences. One longer sentence or like here if there is no passive voice, I'll introduce passive voice. If there is no connector, transitional connector like however, most importantly, I will add it just to to introduce some key difference in structure. So I'm not fitting that into that same mold uh that structure that was dictated by by AI. And that's everything. Wow, this turned out to be a long video just about one simple rule. But I hope without all this talk. Hopefully you learned something new. Please do like the video if you did. Please share it with others to just help spread the word. Uh ask your questions in the comments. I always try to interact with you as much as possible. ask your questions and also feel free to explore the different services that I offer if you're still struggling and you want to learn more about these processes.
Friends, we've all struggled with AI generated text that sounds robotic or gets flagged by detectors like Turnitin. It's frustrating, right? Well, today I'm showing you a tool that changes the game. I am Daniel. Welcome to my channel where I make smart tutorials. In this video, we're checking out Twain GPT, a platform trusted by over 2 million users worldwide. It's a popular humanizer for students, writers, and professionals. Turning AI generated text into content that reads naturally and feels human. Many people rely on it to get their writing past AI detection tools like Turn It In, GPT0, copy leaks, and zero GPT, which makes it ideal for both school and professional projects. Step by step, we'll humanize text, test it with detectors, and even create new content with the writing generator. Also, I've left all the useful links in the description down below. So, don't forget to check them out. Let's dive in. Guys, Twain GPT has built a solid reputation among writers, students, and content creators. Its main focus is making AI generated text sound natural and genuinely human. Even when tested with advanced detection tools, it holds up surprisingly well. To get started, we'll need a sample. Let's ask Chad GPT to write a text about sustainable energy. At first glance, the generated result looks perfectly fine. But there's a catch. It's almost too perfect. The tone feels stiff and overly polished. And that's exactly the kind of thing AI detection tools tend to flag right away. Friends, now let's move on to the main tool, the humanizer. Think of it as a skilled editor stepping in. It reshapes sentences, tweaks word choices, and gives your writing a smoother, more human flow. I'm dropping in our text here. It's 1,295 words, which is a great length to really see the humanization in action. AI writing often follows predictable patterns. The humanizer breaks those patterns and makes it sound more natural. Another nice touch is the language support. Twain GPT works with over 100 languages which makes it accessible to users worldwide and establishes it as a global platform. You can also choose the writing level. I'll keep it set to intermediate. Once the text is pasted in, I hit humanize and within seconds we get a version that sounds smooth and natural. The system even labels it as 100% human. And that's the result. Fully rewritten, natural, and ready to use. Mates, now we've come to the most important part, the real test. We're going to run this text through three AI detectors and see how it holds up. First, let's try Grammarly. It's a tool millions of people use every day to polish their writing. When we check Grammarly's AI detector, it shows just 2% possible AI detected. That means there's a 98% human probability, which is an impressive and strong result. Next up is zero GPT, which is known for having a pretty strict AI detector. We paste in the humanized version. And as you can see on the screen, the checker shows 0% AI content. According to the system, this text is fully human written. Guys, let me take a little break to ask you to like this video and subscribe to my channel. It's absolutely free, but helps me make even more fun tutorials for you. Thanks. Finally, let's run it through copy leaks, a platform that's especially popular in corporate and academic settings. [music] And once again, the result comes back clean. No signs of AI writing detected. So, after three different checks, the takeaway is clear. Twain GPT doesn't just replace a few words here and there. It humanizes the text in a way that removes AI like patterns and makes the text sound more natural. That means it can bypass even the most advanced detectors like copy leaks, turn it in, and zero GPT, which is especially important for academic and professional use. Guys, now let's quickly look at the pricing. There are affordable options in the basic and premium tiers, plus an ultimate plan if you want unlimited humanizer words. All plans come with higher word limits and full access to the platform's tools. You can pick what works for you and if your needs change, upgrading or downgrading is easy. The platform also comes with a built-in AI detector. Let's start by scanning our humanized text. Then we'll check the original chat GPT version. The difference is clear. The original shows 99% AI written while the humanizer output passes cleanly with 0% detected. Folks, Twain GPT also has a writing generator for creating content from scratch. It's a fullfeatured content builder. You can give it a topic or a short outline. Choose the type of essay, pick a writing level, and select the language. Once the topics are generated, we can pick the one that best fits our essay. I'll select a few and hit generate essay. You can see how smoothly it works. At this point, the result is 100% generated. So, we click humanize. It's now showing that the text is fully human, which is a strong result overall. All right, my friends, let's wrap this up with some final thoughts. Twain GPT isn't just another AI tool. It's a powerful AI humanizer that makes your writing sound natural, bypasses major AI detectors like Turn It In and Zero GPT, and saves you hours of rewriting. It's made to ensure your content feels truly human every time. You can explore different plans from basic to ultimate and easily adjust based on your needs. With built-in AI detection, the writing generator, and flexible language support, it's a complete all-in-one solution for elevating your writing. Give it a try. Explore the features and see how easily Twain GPT can humanize your writing. If you're excited to try it out, or if you've already used it and have some thoughts to share, drop a comment below. I'd love to hear your experiences. Don't forget to hit that like button if you found this video helpful and subscribe for more tutorials. Thanks for watching. Until next time.
Do not use AI humanizer tools if you don't have to. If you can manually humanize your text, manually edit it so that it bypasses AI detection. You know that I'm a big critic of AI detect AI humanizer tools because they affect your writing and they don't always deliver what they promise to deliver. At the same time, I'm a big proponent of manual humanization, manual editing. I do have several videos in which I did. And in this video, I'll share 25 rules, 25 things for you uh to focus on when you're trying to manually edit your AI written text so that it doesn't get detected by AI detectors. It's a fairly short list that I compiled based on literally hundreds and hundreds of pages of similar instructions that I use in my work. In my work, I work with AI tools. I help develop some of these AI tools. I deal a lot with AI writing and also one of the services that I offer if you're overwhelmed of course after watching this video is manual humanization. So if you send me your text that's been written or edited uh adjusted by AI and it gets flagged I do have a service where I humanize I edit this text so that it doesn't get flagged as a written and another thing that I'll be offering soon are live workshops where you can join me u I'm humanizing areas and takes while explaining what I'm doing. I'm interacting with you, sharing resources and showing you the full workflow of what exactly I do and what exact tools I use when uh I go through this process. But hopefully you don't need it because in this video I'll share the key 25 points in my opinion uh for what to bear in mind when you're doing that manually. You'll see that there is a lot of overlap and this can be condensed down to the key message which is you want to make your text less uniform. You want to make it less uniform and less statistically uh predictable because that's how it works. AI always goes for these uh favorite uh structures, favorite sentences, favorite words, favorite grammar. So it makes it very uh very much statistically predictable. That's how AI detection works. It sees if it if it can predict what comes next and if it can predict what comes next then it means the text has been written by AI. So so the key point is to make it less predictable. So this is mainly about breaking down the structure which means and here we have number uh point number one for example mixing length of your sentences. So mixing length of the sentences making sure that you don't rely on exactly same sentence length because if you look at a written text usually they are very similar if not the same every sentence is very similar not the same if not the same. [snorts] Uh the structure of it is similar. The use of clauses is similar. The the voice whether it's active or passive. The sent the the tense whether it's past tense or present tense. We'll get to all these points as well, but but first it's about the length. So, uh try to use different lengths of the sentences. Also, combine shorter sentences into longer sentences and also ones that are more heavy in clauses. Again, I'll talk more about clauses in this video later on. As well as splitting long sentences into short punchy sentences as long as it's not predictable, as long as you're not overusing the exact same structure u in each sentence. So, of course, I use different starters. So again, do not just do not begin the sentences the same way, which is something that also is common in a written text. Not exactly the same way, but uh there are certain expressions that that do uh tend to be repeated. Uh which also leads us to number five. So avoid repetition in general. So so this kind of sentences or research shows or the theory aligns or something aligns with a theory. So these things are just very very common. So I keep seeing because like I said, one of the things I do is working with a written text. I keep seeing these things all the time in every single text and you'll uh gradually learn to see that too if you work with this kind of text. As I said, this uh overlaps with uh the the structure of our clauses clauses as well. So simple, compound, complex uh different kinds of clauses. There will be a few more examples in this video uh of what exactly I mean, but generally it's all about the structure. Just uh just make sure that the structure does not feel uniform. If you're looking at a written text, it's all the same. So, uh, every paragraph tends to be of the similar length. Then, if you look at sentences, they tend to be of a very similar structure. They have usually the same kind of voice, uh, passive or active voice. So, everything's similar, but again, we'll get to that very soon. Do not use triplets. I have several videos where I talk about triplets. So, basically, listing things in threes. AI absolutely loves doing that. So, uh, just try to avoid that. Of course, sometimes if you actually need to list three things that that's fine, but try to avoid that as much as possible. Now, the paragraph length, I already mentioned that. So, different structures, different lengths of paragraphs, uh something I I already already said. So, uh not every paragraph needs to be perfect because again, AI will make it perfect. Of course, we want to write in a nice and academic way. So, we do have a topic sentence, which is the first sentence. It kind of presents what the paragraph is about. But, but again, an AI written text is just striking and it's strikingly perfect. So try to especially combine uh change the the length of a paragraph every now and then have a longer shorter paragraph. So that's very important because even a visual inspection of a written text straight away within 10 seconds or 5 seconds I know it's a written just by looking at at paragraphs and how they're structured and how long they are. So a mixture of passive and active voice use different tenses. So all these things again they make help us make sure that it's not uniform. And again, I'm not saying make it completely choppy and and chaotic if it doesn't make any sense. And of course, tenses, you want to use tenses that again make sense in this context of what you're talking about, writing about. But uh but usually there is some scope for variation and also passive and active voice. Try to use I would say active voice mainly. Uh because and I'll talk about it later as well. Uh another thing that I usually say and I start with is just try to be concise. And that's something that AI really really struggles with. So it overexlains and it delivers all these repetitions. Try to be very concise, very to the point, which in any case is a good thing in academic writing. And this also has to do with passive voice. Just very direct, straight, concise sentences written in uh in active voice. Did I say passive or active before? But I meant active. So the Lincoln words again try to use a variety of of different things. of course again without making it sound weird but do not for example rely on and uh because again this is something that AI likes. So in addition to you know as well as just just uh semicolons uh and things like that just try to just try to use more uh more ways to connect connect your ideas. Do not overuse these things. again normal statements, academic statements uh or academic u words. Uh but again just something that is very common and therefore it makes the text very predictable. Uh and it's all about making uh the a detector well a little bit confused and not being able to predict what comes next. Try to change the prepositions as well. So, same thing I said about and uh just try to use different ways to express the same uh the same ideas and also sometimes and it also has to do with being concise again and sometimes even slightly less academic because again a written text will be overly academic and they will always aim for the most sophisticated and complex possible uh sentences, structures and words. So, just use some simple expressions and words every now and then as well. Redundancy and explanation. So something I already said as well uh something very very common in AI written text. So just just try to be concise again the same thing. So I could reduce this whole list probably to five points but I want you to understand exactly what we're talking about. So AI likes to overexlain. It likes to overexlain. It likes to uh rephrase something, paraphrase something, say it again uh within the space of one or two sentences. Not to mention the little conclusions that it puts at the end. So almost every paragraph again will have a conclusion. every section will have a conclusion that basically restates everything and then obviously every chapter, every document will also have a similar conclusion. On the one hand, you do want a structure of course in academic writing, but on the other it just uh does it over the top. It just it's an overkill. It does it all the time and it explains everything and make sure that we understand way too much. If you look at it, you'll realize uh quickly that half of it is not needed because it's just been said, it's just been explained and you don't have to conclude and explain that again. So this is the next point as well. So that's what I meant about conclusion and summaries and then inflated uh verbs. Again what I said earlier just about being concise. You don't always have to use these these words. In fact again there these are words that used to be normal in academic writing but at the moment I avoid them uh as much as possible just because it feels so AI. So leverage for example one of the favorite words that AI uses. And of course sometimes you have to use it but try to also uh inject more normal more common and concise everyday words. The next points are basically about the points I already made. So also uh paraphrasing statements uh whenever possible try not to do that if you don't have to paraphrase. So just make sure that uh you're delivering these ideas in a very straightforward way. Usually that's why when I uh edit a written text, what happens is they end up being much shorter because there's so much redundancy. And then uh cliches and phrases, you'll see that again it's just words and phrases that do not really uh seem to fit in academic writing. Uh it absolutely loves these things. It loves phrasal verbs. It loves some sort of metaphors. So injecting things like that, you absolutely don't need that. Again, remember about being straightforward and concise. I also talked about active voice rather than uh than passive. So not always but uh try to generally aim for active voice. And then uh these are actually four or five different points. So the list could be longer but it's all about reordering the the sentence structure and logic uh which may mean several things. Basically again uh you don't have to remember every single point every every single rule when you're looking at this uh text that you're working on. Of course you won't remember these things but just remember the general message here. So restructure the sentence. try to say the same things in a couple of different ways. So here like reordering the sentence structure. So many scholars believe something that this happens. Then you can say according to some scholars this happens. So quite often it it's not it doesn't seem to change uh anything. It doesn't change the meaning certainly but AI will aim for its favorite structure which means it becomes predictable which means that if you use this other structure even if it's the same meaning then most likely it won't be flagged as AI. and then flipping the logic, changing the sentence focus. It's all about the same thing or restructuring clauses. Just sometimes, you know, as you know, you can start in English, you can start in the sentences different ways. You can start with what happened or you can start by who did that or what led to c uh certain action. So again, it has to do with with what I just said about uh reordering the sentence. Try to experiment with saying similar things in a couple different ways, especially if the previous sentence had a certain structure. try to make the next sentence have another structure because again it will be it's striking and strikingly consistent when AI writes because it will pick one of these and one of these structures and it will consistently stick to it. So just uh always think of ways to change that structure here. What I mean about emotions, of course, it's academic writing. You don't want to to have too much of your subjective voice, emotional voice. But things like uh commenting on something as being alarming, for example, if you're talking about a certain issue or problem is entirely acceptable in academic writing and in fact it's welcome because it does communicate your opinion in a very subtle way. So AI will usually not do that. So whenever possible, try to do that. But it's not a rule. So don't worry if there is no way for you to inject this kind of subjectivity. And finally the couple of points again I I was just combining I was pasting from a long list. Like I said there's hundreds of similar points. So they may seem uh some of them may seem repetitive but they're not always exactly the same. So 23 is kind of optional. So obviously it's about inconsistencies or sometimes even dropping a coma or something. So here we're talking about the the most obvious or the traditional ways to fool AI. Not all detectors will in fact be full these days by that. And I'm not talking about uh affecting the whole structure or grammatical accuracy of your text. I'm just talking about saying things in a slightly less uh less common way. And po and the point about terminology is again just uh the point about not sticking to exactly the same thing. Repetition is a big thing in AI detection. So if uh certain terms or expressions are consistently being repeated, then chances are it gets flagged. So if you can then try to use um some other terms sometimes and again uh these terms while you're looking for other terms to use usually just look in the direction of more concise terms. How can I say it in a concise way in a direct and straightforward way and that's also the point uh at the end of the list. So again just try uh to cut or simplify things because it overdelivers and it overexlains. So, like I said, this is definitely not a comprehensive list, but I did try to uh include the most important things, the most important things. Usually, these things will really get you to this 0% AI um outcome of AI detection. But like I said, I do have several videos where I go through the process. I do have several videos where I show how I actually manually humanize tech. So, feel free to watch uh these other videos. If you're still overwhelmed, uh feel free to ask questions in the comments. First of all, I always try to respond to most of your questions. If you're overwhelmed, have a look at my website. Have a look at the services that I offer and have a look at the workshops I'll be running soon, like I said, because it will be an interactive workshop where you can join me and you can see what happens exactly in the process. But uh otherwise, if you like the video or learn something new, please like it and share it, help others find it on YouTube, and consider subscribing if you haven't already.
Hey, Professor Suckler here. Listen, we need to have a talk about AI. I'm seeing a generation of influencers out there who are making suggestions for how to paraphrase with AI where if you follow their advice, you run the risk of getting yourself into some serious hot water. Check out this video here where we already see reports of students getting expelled just on suspicions of using chat GBT to rewrite their work. So, I want to show you how to use AI to paraphrase in the right way. But I also want to take you through some of these cases that you absolutely should not do. You are creating a professional liability for yourself that can come back to haunt you. I mean, to talk about coming back to haunt you, Harvard's president, check out this video, got into a serious mess and a scandal over plagiarizing. So even if you can humanize AI writing and slip past and fool plagiarism detectors as that technology catches up, you have released something that creates a permanent liability for yourself that could come back to bite you and haunt you like a bogeyman. Why would you do that to yourself? So listen, yeah, we need to have a talk about how you're using AI. I want to do that in this video. So, what I'm going to go through is first show you these use cases that I absolutely do not recommend and then I'm going to show you the right way to paraphrase using AI so that you can stay on the side of angels. Hey, by the way, if you're new to this channel, I'm Professor David Stuckler and I show you the legit ways to use AI so you don't feel anxious, you don't feel like a fraud, and you actually learn and improve and grow as a researcher in the process. If you want to book a one-to-one consultation and get support from a real professor, get real feedback on your work, click the link below. Let's see if we're a good fit to work together. All right, let's get into it. Okay, so you've done some reading and you want to try to paraphrase. So, the best way you can do this using journey.ai is to highlight and use the AI command. Now, you can highlight however much you want. In this case, the highlighter that I've just showed you now is the part that I want to change. But I'm going to start by just highlighting a smaller part of it um where I want to paraphrase. And you can choose on what style of paraphrasing you want. In my case, I'm going to go with academic. And you can see that it's thinking, it's writing, and it's kind of gaining this information from research papers. So, it's true, reliable information that you can also add references for afterwards. Um here you can see that it really has okay this is not paraphrasing but hang on expanded it quite a lot so it's matching the academic tone. You can make it short. Hang on a second. This is not matching your academic tone and that's not the goal in the first place. Longer if you want and then simply replace this section. So the idea the content is exactly the same but it's not copy and pasted. No this is what you don't want to do. You don't want to replace this whole section with a big block of AI writing. In fact, in the example that I showed you, the student got expelled. One of the indications or warning signs of using AI was using quirky acronyms. In one answer, Yang used the acronym PCO, which stands for primary care organization. Even though Yang contends the acronym shows up in established journals, all four professors said none of them in their careers had ever seen that acronym before. which you could actually see quirky acronyms right here that are AI like this is taking a heavy footprint. This is not paraphrasing. This is writing up your essay. So by paraphrasing we are talking about our wonderful Oxford dictionary. Express the meaning of something in different words especially to achieve greater clarity or you're simply going to reword something written or spoken by somebody else. What does it mean to paraphrase something? Well, when we paraphrase, it means, you know, we take somebody's else's sentence and we change it into our own words. So, we change the words of a sentence. We also change maybe the sentence structure, but we keep all the same meaning. Okay? So, the meaning from the sentence you copy, it stays the same. Same meaning, but different words and different sentence structure. So, let me show you a typical use case where you might need to paraphrase in your work. and how you can go about doing that. So, for the purpose of this video, I've just created a very broad outline looking into the role of education as a potential equalizer. Again, this is just for the sake of example. You should always be making an outline in your work. And as I've talked about in some of the other videos, what we'll commonly do is once we've got this outline, this is for a narrative literature review, by the way. Um, we'll do forensic searches around these topics, find citations, strip them out from the literature, and slot them in the right sections before we start going to write up. You want to almost have like in French cooking mison, you want to have all your ingredients lined up before you start writing. I see so many students trying to figure it out as they're writing. That might work for a quick assignment, but for the kinds of detailed research that you need to do, it's really just a strategy for frustration, going in circles, getting lost, and losing time. Back to the approach. So, suppose I want to motivate my intro and look at concerns about rising income inequality and see if education can help reduce it. I would go do a forensic search in Google on this topic, and I might find a couple papers that are relevant. Let me show you an example. So, let's pop in education impact on mobility. And I found a paper here from China Economic Review. I can scan through this. And here I've got a nice citation. I can already see right here. So, this is a good quote about concerns on income inequality. I'm going to move this to my outline. And concerns about rising income inequality. Now, I don't want to necessarily take that verbatim. I might want to rephrase it for clarity. I might want to put it into my own words. You have two broad options here. Option one is you rephrase it yourself and then use AI to help you achieve better clarity and then you check the science because AI sometimes does still mess up the science. Option two is you have AI with the right prompt rephrase it for clarity and then you check the science. And this is where you have the power to make sure that you're not being detected by any like turn it in any plagiarism softwares because you've changed it so many times that it really is so far from the original text. Hang on. Wait a second. No, this is completely lost the plot here on what you're trying to do. You're not trying to change this over and over multiple times to make it humanized. You have t the purpose of paraphrasing is you have taken citations material from the literature slotted it into your outline and you want to rephrase it. You could do that yourself. You can use AI as a tool to help you with that. But the goal is not to fool anybody or slip through detection so it sounds human and nobody's going to catch you and get you busted. Guys, following this approach to try to fool the system is the wrong way to go. This is not the purpose of what we're trying to do with paraphrasing. Also, as I'm going to show you, you always need to have a citation. This is the best way to cover your back. And when you're doing academic writing, you want to stand on the shoulders of giants and cite others to reinforce the points that you're making. To hammer this point home, before paraphrasing anything, always, always, always go get the citation and slot that in your document. Let me show you how. So here I'm going to get the citation. You can just click here and send it to your reference manager and note or if you're using Zotterero uh is a very simple way. But for the purpose of this example, I'm just going to do this. So, I'm going to put this in my references so I know this is cited in this document. Now, I'm going to pull up the PDF and pull the actual Lee and Luo. Sorry for my pronunciation here. I'm going to go pull that one out. So, we can grab the PDF here and I'm going to scroll right to the bottom of the references and pull that out. So, even when you go through and paraphrase, you're going to want to make sure that you keep the citation in there. So, let's come back and I'm just going to drop this in my working reference library. Now, at this stage, I wouldn't recommend going ahead and paraphrasing. I would just leave the original strips and start writing them into your text in an appropriate way so that there's a flow in your paragraphs when you get to writing. So, once you have maybe three or four citations to flesh out this point, then you can start weaving it into a coherent paragraph, a coherent structure using our peer writing system. Check that out here. It will change your life for academic writing. Learn how to do writing the right way. But just to show you an example, if I was going to do the first approach of paraphrasing where I do the first rephrase myself for clarity, I might do it like this. So in China, the urban areas had income levels 3.87 higher than uh in uh rural areas. So just doing something very very quickly here. And I'm always going to keep my citation here. Lee allow 2011. Um, and I might go on further and say the highest 10% of the population had income 32.8fold higher than the poorest 10%. And again, I'm going to overkill my citation because I've taken it directly from them and I want to make sure I have that citation there so that I'm on the side of angels here. Nobody can ever come back and accuse me of plagiarism because I have cited them. This will not turn up as AI detection. This will not turn up as AI detection. You can do this yourself very simply. And if you don't understand this and you're trying to paraphrase now and you're then relying on AI, you run into problems twofold. One, you're running the risk of plagiarism. And two, you actually don't understand what you're writing and you don't understand the science. You have no business writing things yet until you have that clarity and fully understand them. Just as a side note, if you are struggling to understand what you're reading, and sometimes you can struggle because the writing is just terrible. You'll notice in your field some papers you read just seem easy to follow and some are inaccessible. Don't blame yourself. That's a sign of imposter syndrome, by the way. Don't blame yourself. It's just the writing's torturous and many writers have never learned an academic system for writing and they make it really difficult to access their train of thought. Um, but if you are struggling, I do recommend uh the tool Scispace where you can upload a PDF and get feedback and engage with it and ask the GPT that's powering it to explain things at a third grade level. Make sure you have that clarity before you ever go down this path of trying to paraphrase. Okay. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take this example here uh of the approach of let's have AI do the paraphrasing first and then we clean it up. Let's see what it comes up with. Then I'm going to show you with this approach where I've done the first pass myself and then I have AI paraphrase to clean it up. I'm going to show you these subtle differences and how they end up. So I've come over here to chat GPT and I put in the prompt rephrase this citation for academic clarity as part of a literature review and just copied and pasted it in. And you can see it actually started doing what I was doing intuitively. There were two points smushed together in that sentence. I gave them a little bit room to breathe, separated that out and here we go. And it creates a nice paraphrase. um it takes a a rather light touch on the text and leaves you with something well written and clear. And one of the reasons that this has flow, you'll notice, see how this subject here, they found this. You continue with that subject onto the next section, and that keeps the car driving in the same direction. You don't have like this hard stop, the subject changes, and then you're taking a hard right turn. Just a side note about riding. So, let's copy and paste this back into our document as one example. Okay. I would, if you're paraphrasing, go the extra distance and keep this citation added on here just to avoid any potential mishaps as you edit and you restructure. You could end up in a situation where this gets moved somewhere else, gets lost, and you've lost a citation and now you're at risk of plagiarism. If you want to be extra thorough, sometimes you will see this come out. you will say cited in and you would put the yang and colleagues or yang at all depending on your citation format 2016. I don't typically do that personally. It's often not necessary. This happens more in humanities and if the actual citation there's maybe an academic debate there's an actual citation in the document you need to highlight that chain of correspondence and debate you need to do this. For most you're you're good enough just citing in this way. Now, what you typically need to do here is you need to double check the science to make sure the true meaning has stayed intact. This was not a complicated citation. This was not a difficult case. And I can see here that yes, this is much more intact. This is very, very clear. No problems here. I don't have a whole lot that I need to change from this paraphrasing. This is really quite accurate. But again, make sure you take that step to check. Here, I want to show you an example of the second approach where I did the rephrasing myself and then had the AI address it. And we've got a result that's relatively similar. This kept the points broken up into two sections. It made the urban rural dimension first and then the income dimension following what I did here. This is really light touch and more, as you can see, this tends to be more grammar edits, edits for style and it's editorial. By the way, this is 100% legit. If you take the Elsa, it's leading set of academic journals policies on the use of generative AI and AI assisted technologies. They say in a very clear way, these technologies should only be used to improve readability and language of the work. That is exactly what we're doing. It goes on to say, applying the technology should be done with human oversight and control and authors should carefully review and edit the result because it can generate authoritative sounding output that can be incorrect, incomplete, or biased. What I'm showing you right here is the way to use AI that will pass muster in academic journals that you can feel proud of and confident about that you're not doing anything wrong. Now, I do always suggest you heir on the side of transparency just like with these journals you declare. I used Jet GPT in this way and I often do recommend perhaps keeping a log of your work. If you have multiple versions, maybe you have the original version, you save that before you apply AI to it so that if anybody ever comes back and tries to make a false accusation, you can show and retrace your steps. So often the researchers I work with will have the original outline where they've stripped out the material as a basis and they will save a later version that they've used our AI enhanced workflows to update. Problem with using chat GBT to write blogs and essays is this. You copy and paste this essay that CHGBT wrote. The problem is when you plug it into AI detectors like these, it will actually come out with 99% fake, which means you could get caught for plagiarism by your teachers or by Google. You're doing SEO. But let me show you a hack. What you can do is go to quillbot.com and paste in the script or the blog that Chaz BT made for you in here. Tell it to rephrase and it'll rewrite it for you. Now, let's copy and paste it into the AI detector. Now, it's coming up with 89% real and 10% fake. No, this is not a viable solution. This is again exactly what not to do because in the future these plagiarism detectors are getting better and better and we'll pick this up. They're increasingly getting flagged. This is what I mean about a liability. And as you can see, this is not even just it says rephrase. That is not rephrase. That is a massive rewrite. Don't do this. This is not a viable solution. A big no no. Imagine this. your perfectly crafted AI generated essay instantly rejected because it screams AI written. What if I told you there's a foolproof way to make your AI content look like it's straight from a human mind? I think this is what is like the hope and dream of people who just completely have lost the plot in education. Maybe you're trying to use AI to get yourself a good grade, but you are ultimately doing yourself a disservice if you're trying to go down this path. Let me fast forward to the part where he introduced their suggestions. By the way, don't ever do this in structure. Now, let's take it up a notch. With a little guidance, we'll instruct Chad GPD to mimic human quirks. Things like adding short abrupt sentences, mixing formal and casual tones, using storytelling instead of rigid formatting, and making subtle grammatical mistakes. I mean, guys, really, I mean, this is what's gotten students expelled. and you want to intentionally introduce these quirky grammatical errors as a professor, I can see through this a mile away because the tone has this certain abruptness that's not coherent with other things that you've written, which is not coherent with things that you've done in the past. So, if you're at a graduate level and you're even clicking on these videos, you might need to existentially think about what you're doing in grad school. You might need to look for some real support from a real human who can help you get real training so you can feel confident and have skills for your entire career. If that sounds like you, click the link below to get feedback and support from a real human, me, through our community and individual onetoone training programs. Click the link, book a call with me, and let's see if we're a good fit to work together. No pressure. So, there you have it. Paraphrasing doesn't have to be difficult. you can preserve your human voice without tying yourself in knots using some of these AI tools and gizmos which is going to end up with a pastiche or a mismatch of some text that you feel like a fraud about. The flow is really simple. Um, you need to have a structure to your outline and your document. You need to strip out real citations, keep those citations, and use a light gloves, a light touch of AI to keep the science intact, but do some light phrasing to put things in your own words. That is still going to require you to engage as a human. It is not. I know it's tempting, guys. You might want to save time, and say, "Go click and AI is going to do everything for me." But you are running a foul of ethical policies and risking getting yourself kicked out. If not now, it can come back to haunt you in the future as has happened with others who have plagiarized like in this case Harvard's president or many other students who are hearing anecdotal stories about who are getting expelled. Look, I care about you guys. I don't want to see anything bad happening to you. If you are feeling lost, if you don't turn to AI as this quick drug that you think is going to be a quick fix, silver bullet to everything, encourage you to get in touch. Let's have a chat and let's get on the right path to success in an ethical way. Again, click the links below. Let's get in touch and we will get you connected to the right support for you. And we are setting this up in a way that can break barriers academically. So, no matter where you are in the world, whatever resources you have available to you, we've got a program that can fit your needs. See you guys in the next video on our AI workflows.
Let's hit turning AI 0% without needing to pay a single penny to this AI humanizing tools. None. No money whatsoever. Let's start with this particular sentence that was flagged for 13 AI 100%. You can see that 100%. Although humanized by paid humanizing tools. So guys, let's start the full tutorial now. Step one, understanding these documents. Okay, these couple of documents here, right? Were all AI humanized and still detected as 100% AI. So then why the hell 30 years still showing 100% already humanized 3 what these guys all paid for humanizing tools you know quillboard and whatn not all these other tools before they came to us because then only they realized you know they got caught with 18 AI publication rejected the rejected assignment rejected and so on and so forth now we need to first break it down what is the problem the answer is both simple and complex as well all this write up right is all the same boring bloody AI generated text via NLP, [music] natural language processing. They may look different. Okay, they may look different. For our eye, it's a bit [music] hard to capture, but the underlying tone, the grammar structure, [music] the vocabulary used and the sentence structure are statistically monotonous. [music] This is what no one tells you is statistically monotonous. That means [music] in layman term okay for any other people who just learning how to write turnit in AI when it scans these documents right it can statistically identify the parameters of grammar wall cap structure tone and some undisclosed parameters of course it know they have their own uh patented software and [music] so on so they won't be disclosing everything they combine all these parameters I just mentioned all of [music] these parameters to identif Identify whether it is AI return or not whether it's AI [music] generated could be chat GBT could be anything you know perplexity and so on and then AI paraphrase is the same AI it's the same bloody AI generating and paraphrasing no difference to that that is why statistically AI does the matching and shown 100% AI generated this is the sentence. If you look at the first sentence and the second sentence, there is no connectivity whatsoever. So now let's go to humanbased paraphrasing round one. Make sure your tracking is on and you delete the whole sentence. So deletion down. Now let's paraphrase. Okay, done. What I did was very simple. I combine these two sentences for a better flow and uniformly have a very nice uh sort of uh information combining. But my question to all of you, will this become 280%. The answer is no. Unfortunately, it's still detected as AI generated sentence. Look at that 69 bloody percent. Therefore, let's go to round two. Paraphrasing by applying the change of voice method. Done. Here I used interrelated instead of interconnectedness to tone down the stiness. And I also changed the second sentence to be an active sentence now with complex structure. I've complicated it now. Okay, purposely. So now the 13 should be 0% right. It is not 0%. It is 36%. Which is so from this now round three we rewrite. I added driving work to emphasize the uniformity of the clause that expresses the result of the previous clause. This will make the sentence feel more fluid like how a human would tell the story. That's important human us. All right, we need to tell the story. So still not understanding what the hell I just did in these three rounds. Don't worry, I understand it is [music] difficult. That's why we offer these services, these paraphrasing services under our humanbased paraphrasing service for all of you to make sure that [music] you guys don't get stuck within AI. We guarantee turn AI zero% zero when we do it. But you guys need to give us [music] a bit of time definitely. All right. Now, let's get into the explanation of this uh round number three. By using interlink [music] instead of interrelated now and I change the driving word I also soften the tone even further. The two sentences will have more complex structure complex. And now [sighs] let's wait for [music] the result. Turn it in AI 0%. [music] Finally. That's how we do it. That's how complicated our life is unfortunately. All right, so this is how you manually paraphrase [music] your sentence for free on your own. All right, that's definitely difficult but practice will make it perfect. Nothing to worry. Practice will definitely make it perfect. I never born knowing how to write English properly. Okay, I learned I learned I learned I learned hustle hustle hustle hustle and this is what we can do now. Okay, we formulated the method now how to beaten it in AI. So all the context maintained [music] few rounds of solid rewriting this just one paragraph if you have 300 pages of thesis if you have 20 pages of journal if you have 10 pages of assignment calculate the timing guys turn it in AI humanizing tool will never work and we can guarantee turnitin AI to hit 0%. [music] See all these graduates today all these guys they all once upon a time as not once upon a time like just last year they mistakenly used Grammly [music] they didn't know that Grammary is being detected and they hit turn AI more than 80% and at the very last minute we actually helped them out to graduate and that's what happens all individual clients say we consulted their entire thesis but to save cost of course they wanted to use Grammary to proof rate but unfortunately they had to come back so that's what [music] happens now this is why you Look at this this funnel right this this this entire uh [music] paraphrasing steps right how we construct the sentence this is why human brain is far superior compared to AI when it comes to [music] creative academic writing creative academic writing huh at the end of the day humanizing tool is still an AI tool guys AI how you going to use AI to remove AI it doesn't work all right sometimes only sometimes humanizing tool may be turned in AI by totally changing the context it would mean something else altogether I have proven it before in one of my videos on Tik Tok this is the video using Walter rights okay totally destroy the context 100% student will fail it's unavoidable when your context is changed the only thing you can do is you get failed that's it okay so here is a complete paraphrasing training template for all of you to practice on your own so that you guys You don't need to pay anyone for paraphrasing. If you guys want this template, hit the subscribe button. There is a notification right there. Right? You see that button there? It's free. Just hit it. Nothing will happen to you. All right? This is also free. And the comment down there, please comment that you need the template. My guys will get in touch with you. Turn it in AI 0% guaranteed.
I want to use AI tools for writing my research paper. But I'm scared. What if the journal flaks it for plagiarism? What if the AI ​​score is too high? What if my paper gets rejected for it? These are some of the most common concerns that researchers have today when it comes to using AI tools. But here's the truth. AI itself is not the problem. The problem is not knowing how to use these AI tools properly. Hi everyone, I'm Neha Agarwal. I'm the founder of Wise. And in this video today, I'm going to show you how to use AI tools

Smartly write your research, paper, proposal, or thesis without getting into AI detection or plagiarism issues. We're going to do this step by step using one of the most popular AI tools for academic writing, Genie AI. So, without further delay, let's get started. Now, the first thing many of us struggle with even before we start writing is where do I actually begin? What are the sections I should include in my paper and what should be the topics under each section? Now, this is where AI tools like Genie can be really helpful in generating a research outline. So, let me show you how it works. So, here's what I'm going to do: first, log in to my Genie account. And after that, we're going to start with a new document. And if you see here, Genie is asking me what exactly I'm working on. So I'm going to type in a research proposal I'm working on: the impact of social media on mental health offenses. Now, if you want, you can share more information about your topic, but for now, I'm just going to put down my topic here. Now, if you see it here, for

Generating an Outline Genie is giving us three options. The first is Standard Headings or IMR ED, which basically means it's going to generate the Introduction, Materials, Results, and Discussion as the headings for us. Then we have Smart Headings, where the AI ​​will generate headings based on the document prompt we're giving. Then, the third option is No Headings, where we start with a blank document. For the purpose of my research proposal, I'm going to go for Smart Headings because I want to know what the main headings I should have in my research proposal are, and then I click on Next. Now, if you see Genie, it's giving me these auto-completion settings. Basically, based on the topic of my research, Genie can help me auto-generate text. Now, that auto-generated text can either come from published papers online or from the library of papers that I upload to the platform. Now, the best part that I like about Genie is that it gives you full control. So, here I have an option to switch off the auto-completion features. The reason being, I want to avoid AI-detected plagiarism issues and I want to

maintain full control over my writing. So, now I click on Start Writing. And if you see here, Jenny has given me all the headings and subheadings that need to go into my research proposal. So, starting first with the introduction, and then with the introduction, if you see, I need to cover the background and rationale, the problem statement, the research question, the aims and objectives, and the significance of the study. And then we have the literature review where I need to talk about social media use among adolescents. So, this itself is going to be very helpful for me in understanding what the headings are and what the information is under each of these headings. And because we have used Jenny's help in generating an outline, there are no AI detection or plagiarism issues because the writing is still going to be done by you. Now, once we have the overall outline generated, the next step is to actually start writing. And here, I highly recommend that you start writing the document on your own first. No matter how good or bad your English is, the aim is to get all the ideas onto the paper. So

Here, if you see, I have written the introduction and method section of my research proposal without any AI inputs. And just to verify, I am going to put this in GPT Zero's AI detector for a quick check. So, I have pasted my text in the box provided and hit scan. And now, if you see, GPT Zero is telling me that it is 100% likely that my text is human written. Now, what I'll do is use Genie to improve my writing. After that, I'll scan it through GPT Zero once more to see if any AI detection score changes. Now, once you have your rough draft

ready, you need to identify parts that you're not entirely happy with, and we're going to improve those with Genie's help. For example, here's this particular statement that I have written: I feel that its fluency isn't very good. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go for this AI edit option: I'll choose to improve fluency, and then I'm going to fix the flow issues that it has. Now, what I love about Jenny is that it not only recommends the changes, but it also clearly shows me what changes it is actually making. So, what I'm going to do is I

am going to hit Replace Selection. And there you go. Another thing could be that you're taking a text exactly word by word from another paper, but you want to paraphrase it to avoid plagiarism. So, for example, this portion I've taken word by word from another paper, and I want to now paraphrase it. So, again, I click on

summarize this whole